---
layout: post
title: "Prayers"
date: 2020-09-02
updated: 2020-09-04
category: spirit
---

## Morning offering
Our Father.<br>
Hail Mary.<br>

Dear Lord, I offer you all my prayers, works, joys, and sufferings of this day. May I work prayerfully and suffer joyfully.

I pray that I come to the further realization that I can do absolutely nothing without you and therefore I beg that you constantly remind me to ask you for help in everything I do. Amen.

Glory Be.<br>

## Prayers before Mass
Our Father.<br>
Hail Mary.<br>

Dear Lord, I pray that you help me stay entirely focused on you during this Mass. Let my mind not wander for even an instant, but if for some reason it does, please immediately snap me back to you, offering up whatever was distracting me as part of my experience of the Mass.

And may You tell me something during this Mass that You want me to hear. Make it so blatantly obvious I can't ignore it and give me the Grace to remember it. Amen.

Glory Be.<br>

## Prayers after Communion
Our Father.<br>
Hail Mary.<br>

I pray for all women, that they recognize their true beauty, dignity, and worth as human beings, but especially as women; and as a result they overcome any and all struggles with anorexia, bulemia, body image issues, and anything related; and there's an end to sexual sin.

I pray that there is an end to the individual and widespread use of contraception, both here in America and abroad.

[Special intentions]

I pray for my future wife: whoever, wherever, and if she may be. May she stay pure for me as I stay pure for her.

I pray for RumbleUp [my company].

Amen.

Glory Be.<br>

## Prayers after Mass
Our Father.<br>
Hail Mary.<br>

Dear Lord, thank you for giving me this opportunity to receive Your Body and Blood into my body and blood. May They flow through every artery, vein, and capillary; fuse with every molecule and atom; thereby transforming me so that I may better do Your Will, by Your Grace, for Your Greater Glory. And by my faith and my works may I become your Saint. Amen.<br>

Glory Be.<br>
Hail Holy Queen.\*<br>
St. Michael's Prayer.\*<br>
Memorarae.

_* If not already said publicly after Mass_

## Prayers before bed
Our Father.<br>
Hail Mary.<br>

Dear Lord, I pray that you help me fall asleep quickly and easily, have a restful sleep, and wake up in the morning on time, refreshed, and ready for the day. Amen.

Glory Be.<br>
